# Migrations

This file contains a list of tasks that are either required or at least
strongly recommended to align projects using this SDK.

## M0008 2024-04-22 Update to v9

Check release notes and upgrade to v9.

* Many deprecated function got removed.
* Removed `lokiutil` (not used anywhere)
* Removed `podtuil` (use testcontainers instead)
* Removed `redisutil.Broadcast` (not used anywhere)
* `webutil.ViewRedirect` does not support format args anymore. Use `webutil.ViewRedirectf` instead.
* `webutil.AdminAPIListenAndServe` now uses options. Check go docs for new usage.
* Removed `cdnmirror`. Use Yarn or similar instead.
* Change signature of `cmdutil.Runner.Run` from `(context.Context)` to `(context.Context, []string)` in order to be able
  to access positional args.


## M0007 2024-11-08 Switch to Dependency Injection

### Reasoning

Our previous approach to have a single `Server` struct and to put all logic there gets messy pretty fast. Worse than
that it is hard to refactor this to separate this into multiple structs or packages. Dependency injection will help us
to separate those things in the very beginning of a project without manual wiring of dependencies.

### Hints

* The primary server.Run function should be replaced with a standalone `RunServer(ctx context.Context, c *dig.Container) error`
* The `cmdutil.Runner` should setup environment specific dependencies (eg Redis vs Miniredis) while `RunServer` should
  setup the independent ones (eg services, workers and handlers).

### Examples

The `RunServer` function could look like this:

```go
func RunServer(ctx context.Context, c *dig.Container) error {
	return errors.Join(
		// define services and repos
		c.Provide(...),

		// define HTTP handlers
		webutil.ProvideHandler(c, handlers.New...),

		// define workers
		runutil.ProvideWorker(c, workers.New...),

		// start all workers
		runutil.RunProvidedWorkers(ctx, c),
	)
}
```


## M0006 2024-09-20 Use webutil.NewServer

### Reasoning

The setup of the HTTP server has a lot of repetition in every project. Therefore, we move it into the SDK.

## M0005 2024-09-20 Streamline templates and assets

### Reasoning

Defining the `fs.FS` types for assets and templates for prod and dev is always a bit cumbersome, because the paths for
devs are always relative to the project root and the paths for the prod ones need to do an additional `fs.Sub` with
respective error handling. This gets a little more severe with dependency injection, since we would have to wrap this into functions.

The package structure also is not optimal, since the templates are currently nested into the handlers package, which is
one level below all other directories. Generally, the package structure is not defined properly yet.

To make our lives easier with dependency injection, we should also define distinct types for the asset `fs.FS` and the
template `fs.FS`.

### Package structure

* `pkg/app/handlers` — Should include all HTTP handlers.
* `pkg/app/templates` — Should include all HTML templates.
* `web` — Should include the frontend assets. Mostly generated by Yarn.

### File `web/web.go`

The file is more or less static and would only differ in the generate statements, if you are not using Yarn.

```go
package web

import (
	"embed"
	"io/fs"
	"os"
)

//go:generate yarn install
//go:generate yarn build

//go:embed all:dist/*
var embedded embed.FS

type FS fs.FS

func DevFS() FS {
	return os.DirFS("web/dist")
}

func ProdFS() FS {
	result, err := fs.Sub(embedded, "dist")
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}

	return result
}
```

### File `pkg/app/templates/fs.go`

This file should look the same everywhere and should be the only `.go` file in that directory, because the other ones
are HTML templates.

```go
package templates

import (
	"embed"
	"io/fs"
	"os"
)

//go:embed all:*
var embedded embed.FS

type FS fs.FS

func DevFS() FS {
	return os.DirFS("pkg/app/templates")
}

func ProdFS() FS {
	return embedded
}
```

### Dependency injection hints

When already using dependency injection, the definitions in the `root.go` would look simple as follows, for production
and development respectively:

```go
	c.Provide(templates.ProdFS)
	c.Provide(web.ProdFS)
```

```go
	c.Provide(templates.DevFS)
	c.Provide(web.DevFS)
```

Afterward, they can be simply requested by requesting `web.FS` or `templates.FS`.

## M0004 2024-09-13 Isolate HTTP handlers

### Reasoning

Our previous approach to have a single `Server` struct and to put all logic there gets messy pretty fast. Worse than
that it is hard to refactor this to separate this into multiple structs or packages. Dependency injection will help us
to separate those things in the very beginning of a project without manual wiring of dependencies. One step towards this
to split up all HTTP handlers into separate files.

### Hints

* The handlers should be moved into the `pkg/app/handlers` package.
* The handler struct should have a `New...` constructor with all required dependencies as parameters.
* The handler struct should implement `interface { Register(chi.Router) }`, which gets called once to set up the routes.
  This will later be used for dependency injection integration.

### Example

```go
package handlers

import (
	"net/http"

	"github.com/go-chi/chi/v5"
	"github.com/rebuy-de/platform-inventory/pkg/bll/webutilext"
	"github.com/rebuy-de/platform-inventory/pkg/dal/sqlc"
	"github.com/rebuy-de/rebuy-go-sdk/v8/pkg/webutil"
)

type KubeEventHandler struct {
	sqlc   *sqlc.Queries
	viewer *webutilext.JetViewer
}

func NewKubeEventHandler(
    sqlc *sqlc.Queries,
    viewer *webutilext.JetViewer,
) *KubeEventHandler {
	return &KubeEventHandler{
		sqlc:   sqlc,
		viewer: viewer,
	}
}

func (h *KubeEventHandler) Register(router chi.Router) {
	router.Get("/kube/events", webutilext.WrapView(h.list))
	router.Get("/kube/events/table-fragment", webutilext.WrapView(h.listFragment))
}

func (h *KubeEventHandler) list(r *http.Request) webutil.Response {
	events, err := h.sqlc.ListKubeEvents(r.Context())
	if err != nil {
		return webutilext.ViewError(http.StatusInternalServerError, err)
	}

	return h.viewer.HTML(http.StatusOK, "kube_event_list.html", events)
}

func (h *KubeEventHandler) listFragment(r *http.Request) webutil.Response {
	events, err := h.sqlc.ListKubeEvents(r.Context())
	if err != nil {
		return webutilext.ViewError(http.StatusInternalServerError, err)
	}

	return h.viewer.HTML(http.StatusOK, "frames/kube_event_table.html", events)
}
```

## M0003 2024-08-16 Change viewer interfaces of webutil

### Reasoning

The previous interface is a bit awkward to use with dependency injection together with splitting the HTTP handlers into
multiple structs. Additionally there were cases where we wanted to use the `webutil.Response` type for convenience, but
did not actually need any HTML rendering.

Therefore the interfaces are changed this way:
* The new `webuitil.WrapView` function replaces the old `webuitl.ViewHandler.Wrap` function and does not require any
  template definitions.
* All `webutil.Response` functions, that do not need templates, are pure functions now (ie not attached to a type).
* The handler interface gets reduced to `func(*http.Request) Response`, so it does not contain the view parameter
  anymore. When using HTML, it is required to attach the `webutil.GoTemplateViewer` to the struct that implements the
  handler.


## M0002 2024-07-19 Replace cdnmirror with yarn

### Reasoning

Our `cdnmirror` is quite limited and we have no means of running Dependabot on those dependencies. Also with Yarn we are able to minify our own JS and CSS files.

### Steps

#### 1. Copy existing files

* Move static assets to `web/src/www`.
  * eg `mkdir -p web/src && mv cmd/assets web/src/www && rm -rf web/src/www/cdnmirror`
* Custom style should go into `web/src/index.css`.
  * The file can be a composition of `@import "xxx";` statements.
* Custom style should go into `web/src/index.js`.
  * The file can be a composition of `import 'xxx';` statements.

#### 2. Create basic files

*web/web.go*

```go
package web

import (
	"embed"
	"io/fs"
	"os"

	"github.com/rebuy-de/rebuy-go-sdk/v8/pkg/webutil"
)

//go:generate yarn install
//go:generate yarn build

//go:embed all:dist/*
var embedded embed.FS

func DevFS() webutil.AssetFS {
	return os.DirFS("web/dist")
}

func ProdFS() webutil.AssetFS {
	result, err := fs.Sub(embedded, "dist")
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}

	return result
}
```

*web/package.json*

* Set project name (kebab case).
* Adjust dependencies.

```json
{
  "name": "__PROJECT_NAME__",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "packageManager": "yarn@4.2.2",
  "private": true,
  "dependencies": {
    "@fortawesome/fontawesome-free": "^6.5.2",
    "bulma": "^1.0.1",
    "htmx.org": "^1.9.12",
    "idiomorph": "^0.3.0"
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    "esbuild": "^0.23.0",
    "nodemon": "^3.1.4"
  },
  "scripts": {
    "build": "node esbuild.config.mjs"
  }
}
```

*web/esbuild.config.mjs*

* Remove files from `entryPoints` if not needed. Remove the whole `esbuild.build` command, if the `entryPoints` are empty.
* Remove `fs.cpSync`, if there are not static assets, like favicons.

```js
import * as esbuild from 'esbuild'
import fs from 'node:fs'

await esbuild.build({
  entryPoints: [
     'src/index.js', 'src/index.css',
  ],
  bundle: true,
  minify: true,
  sourcemap: true,
  outdir: 'dist/',
  format: 'esm',
  loader: {
    '.woff2': 'file',
    '.ttf': 'file'
  },
})

fs.cpSync('src/www', 'dist', {recursive: true});

// The HTMX stuff does not deal well with ESM bundling. It is not needed tho,
// therefore we copy the assets manually and link them directly in the <head>.
const scripts = [
  'hyperscript.org/dist/_hyperscript.min.js',
  'hyperscript.org/dist/template.js',
  'htmx.org/dist/htmx.min.js',
  'idiomorph/dist/idiomorph-ext.min.js',
];

scripts.forEach((file) => {
    fs.cpSync(`node_modules/${file}`, `dist/${file}`, {recursive: true});
});
```

*web/.gitattributes`

```
.yarn/releases/* filter=lfs diff=lfs merge=lfs -text
```

*web/.gitignore*

```
/node_modules
/dist/*
!/dist/.keepdir

.pnp.*
.yarn/*
!.yarn/patches
!.yarn/plugins
!.yarn/releases
!.yarn/sdks
!.yarn/versions
```

*web/.yarnrc.yml*

```yaml
yarnPath: .yarn/releases/yarn-4.2.2.cjs
enableGlobalCache: false
nmMode: hardlinks-global
nodeLinker: node-modules
```

#### 3. Download Yarn

There might be a better way.

```sh
mkdir -p web/.yarn/releases/
curl -sSL -o web/.yarn/releases/yarn-4.2.2.cjs https://repo.yarnpkg.com/4.2.2/packages/yarnpkg-cli/bin/yarn.js
```

#### 4. Run Yarn

```sh
go generate ./web
```

This should run without errors and generate the directories `web/dist` and `web/node_modules`.

#### 5. Remove cdnmirror

* remove from `tools.go`
* remove from all `go:generate` comments
* run `go mod tidy`

#### 6. Replace References in HTML

* everything in `src/index.js` is merged and minified and available with `/assets/index.js`
* everything in `src/index.css` is merged and minified and available with `/assets/index.css`

#### 6. Update directory references

* use `web.ProdFS()` instead of `//go:embed`
* use `web.DevFS()` instead of `os.DirFS("cmd/assets")` in dev command

#### 7. Configure Dependabot

Configure `.github/dependabot.yml`:

```yaml
  - package-ecosystem: "npm"
    directory: "/web"
    schedule:
      interval: "weekly"
      day: "tuesday"
      time: "10:00"
      timezone: "Europe/Berlin"
    groups:
      yarn:
        patterns:
          - "*"
```

#### 8. Add Yarn to Dockerfile

With Alpine it would look like this:

```
RUN apk add --no-cache git git-lfs openssl nodejs yarn
```

### Hints

#### Example index.css

```css
@import "@fortawesome/fontawesome-free/css/all.css";
@import "bulma/css/bulma.css";

@import './style/bulma-patch.css';
@import './style/ry.css';
```

#### Infer config from cdnmirror command

Most config can be infered from the go:generate configs. For example with this unkpg source:

```
//go:generate cdnmirror --source https://unpkg.com/bootstrap@5.1.3/dist/css/bootstrap.min.css --target bootstrap-5.1.3-min.css
```

The URL follows this pattern: `https://unpkg.com/{package}@{version}/{import}`, where:
* `{package}` and `{version}` should go into the `dependencies` config of `package.json`.
* For CSS, add a statement like this into the `index.css`: `@import "{package}/{import}";`

There is not guarantee that this work, tho.

## M0001 2024-06-14 Remove all uses of `github.com/pkg/errors`

### Reasoning

[github.com/pkg/errors](https://github.com/pkg/errors) is deprecated. Since the built-in `errors` package improved a bit in the recent Go versions, we should remove all uses of `github.com/pkg/errors` and replace it with the `errors` package.

### Hints

* Use the pattern `return fmt.Errorf("something happenend with %#v: %w", someID, err)`
* The stack trace feature gets lost. Therefore it is suggested to properly add error messages each time handling errors.
